Student Permit Details

Context: Insurance
As a student, you must personally cover the costs if you become ill in Finland. In order to get a residence permit, you must take out private insurance that will cover your medical and drug expenses. The insurance you need depends on the duration of your studies in Finland. If you have a Kela card, a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or a UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC), you do not need to take out insurance. The card must be valid even after you have moved to Finland. Attach to your residence permit application a certificate of insurance or a copy of your Kela card or a copy of your European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or a copy of your UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC). What kind of insurance do I need? All insurance must meet the following requirements: The insurance excess may not be more than EUR 300. If you stay in Finland for less than year, your insurance must be valid throughout your entire stay in Finland. If your studies in Finland take longer than a year, your insurance must be valid without a break for at least one year. There cannot be any restrictions on the validity of your insurance. It must be valid throughout your entire stay in Finland. This means that the insurance cannot be a regular travel insurance that is only valid during trips that last a maximum of 90 days. If you get a residence permit for two years but your insurance is only valid for a year, remember to renew your insurance. If you get a residence permit for two years but your insurance is only valid for a year, remember to renew your insurance. Your insurance must be valid when you arrive in Finland. If your studies take at least two years, your insurance must cover pharmaceutical expenses up to EUR 40,000. The required amount of insurance depends on the duration of your studies in Finland. If your studies take less than two years, your insurance must cover medical expenses up to EUR 120,000. If your studies take less than two years, your insurance must cover medical expenses up to EUR 120,000. If your studies take at least two years, your insurance must cover pharmaceutical expenses up to EUR 40,000. If your studies take at least two years, your insurance must cover pharmaceutical expenses up to EUR 40,000. In other words, the shorter your studies will take, the more extensive insurance coverage you will need. For example, an exchange student needs more comprehensive insurance than a degree student. Where can I take out acceptable insurance? When you are outside Finland, you can take out insurance from an insurance company in your home country. Alternatively, you may ask for suitable insurance from an international insurance company. You can also look into insurance providers that offer international health insurance for students. For instance the following insurance companies offer students insurance contracts that meet the requirements for granting a residence permit for studies: the French company Assurances Courtages et Services (ACS) (www.acs-ami.com) Aon Student Insurance, whose parent company is the US company Aon Corporation (https://www.aonstudentinsurance.com) the US company International Student Insurance (www.internationalstudentinsurance.com) the Swiss insurance company Swisscare – ESI Finland plan (https://swisscare.com/) SIP Integral (https://www.sipinsurance.eu) SIP Integral (https://www.sipinsurance.eu) We assess each insurance policy and its terms and conditions individually when we process residence permit applications. The insurance policy must include at least the following information: your personal details period of validity of insurance geographical area in which your insurance is valid insurance coverage insured amounts amount of excess, or a mention that there is no excess. amount of excess, or a mention that there is no excess. European Health Insurance Card If you have a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), you do not need to take out other insurance. By presenting the European Health Insurance Card, you can prove your right to necessary medical treatment in another EU or EEA country and in Switzerland. Your card must be valid for the duration of your stay in Finland. Under EU legislation, you can access health care at the same cost and under the same conditions as people living permanently in Finland. With the card, you can get medical treatment if you become suddenly ill or have an accident. You can also get medical treatment if you have a chronic illness that requires medical attention. The card also gives access to necessary treatment during pregnancy and childbirth. The European Health Insurance Card is recognised within the public health care services as well as by private doctors and hospitals that have signed a health insurance agreement. More information on the European Health Insurance Card can be found on the website of the website of the European Commission. Customer bulletins - residence permits Renew your residence permit card on Enter Finland for a lower fee and without a service point visit Apply for a residence permit for an employed person to pick wild berries in Finland Customers under 18 years of age can now avoid having to visit a service point when renewing their residence permit card Effects of the strikes on 1–2 February 2024 on customers of the Finnish Immigration Service Information for partners: All residence permits granted on the basis of temporary protection will be extended on 9–16 February 2024

Context: Study place
You can get a residence permit if you have been accepted to study at an educational institution in Finland. You can get a residence permit for higher education studies, if your studies lead to a degree and if you have paid the fees charged by the higher education institution. 'Higher education institution' refers to institutions that are recognised in the Finnish higher education system and that are authorised to offer education leading to a degree or other education in accordance with the Finnish legislation on higher education. If you have been accepted to study at an educational institution that is not a higher education institution, your studies must lead to a vocational qualification or a degree. You may also get a residence permit for studies not mentioned above if you have a well-founded reason for it. Acceptable reasons can be further studies to supplement vocational skills or degrees already acquired, further training relating to work done in the country of departure, or special training available in Finland (for example training provided within the framework of education export). Residence permits are not granted for basic education. Exchange studies You may obtain a residence permit based on your studies if you participate in an exchange programme between educational institutions or some other exchange programme. For further information about exchange programmes, please ask your own educational institution. You can come to Finland to carry out part of your studies for a period up to 360 days, if you have been granted a residence permit for studies by some other EU Member State than Finland and if you are covered by a programme or an agreement specified in section 19 of the Finnish act on residence permits for students (719/2018). If this is the case, you do not have to apply for a residence permit. Instead, you must submit a mobility notification to the Finnish Immigration Service. Language and training courses You may obtain a residence permit to study Finnish before the start of your actual studies if you have been accepted as a student at a Finnish educational institution. You may not obtain a residence permit for language or training courses alone. Apprenticeship training A residence permit can also be granted for apprenticeship training. Apprenticeship training is education that mainly takes place at a workplace, in genuine work situations. The employer and the student sign a written apprenticeship agreement, which is a fixed-term employment contract. The duration of apprenticeship training determines the residence permit type that you must apply for The duration is calculated on the basis of your personal competence development plan (PCDP), which you create together with the educational institution. If more than half of the duration of your degree studies will consist of apprenticeship training, apply for a residence permit on the grounds of work requiring a preliminary decision (a residence permit for an employed person). In this case, your right to work is determined according to the residence permit for an employed person. Read more about the residence permit for an employed person. If at the maximum half of the duration of your degree studies will consist of apprenticeship training, apply for a residence permit on the grounds of studying. You may work full time in employment included in the apprenticeship. In addition, you may work in other paid employment for a maximum of 30 hours per week. If you have first studied for a degree in an educational institution with a residence permit for studies but later you carry out the main part of your remaining studies as apprenticeship training, apply for a residence permit for an employed person. For more information on apprenticeship training, see the website of the Finnish National Agency for Education (oph.fi) (in Finnish). Are you looking for these? Tuition fees Internship Seeking work after graduation Customer bulletins - residence permits Renew your residence permit card on Enter Finland for a lower fee and without a service point visit Apply for a residence permit for an employed person to pick wild berries in Finland Customers under 18 years of age can now avoid having to visit a service point when renewing their residence permit card Effects of the strikes on 1–2 February 2024 on customers of the Finnish Immigration Service Information for partners: All residence permits granted on the basis of temporary protection will be extended on 9–16 February 2024

Context: Income requirement for students
You can be granted a residence permit for the entire duration of your studies. You need to be able to support yourself in Finland. When you apply for your first residence permit for studies, you cannot secure your income with work. Add to your application proof of how you will finance your stay in Finland during the first year of studies You must have sufficient funds for living in Finland during the entire period of validity of your residence permit. You need to have at least 560 euros per month at your disposal to be able to pay for your accommodation, food and other needs. In addition, you need to have enough money to pay the tuition fee if you have not yet paid it. If your studies take one year or longer, you must have EUR 6,720 in your bank account when you submit the application. take less than one year, you must have EUR 560 per month at your disposal. If you have been awarded a grant or scholarship to cover your living costs in Finland, add proof of this grant or scholarship to your application. The money will be counted towards the income requirement. For example: You are coming to Finland to study for one year, and you are awarded a grant of EUR 2,000 towards your living costs in Finland. In that case, you must add to your application a bank statement confirming that you have EUR 4,720 in your bank account (EUR 6,720 - EUR 2,000e = EUR 4,720). Some educational institutions support their students’ residence in Finland If the educational institution provides you with free accommodation, you need to have at least EUR 280 per month at your disposal. If the educational institution provides you with free accommodation and free meals, you need to have at least EUR 195 per month at your disposal. Tuition fees Studies at higher education institutions or universities are usually subject to a fee. If you have already paid your tuition fee before submitting the application, please attach documentation of the paid fee to your residence permit application. In addition, you need to have sufficient funds for living in Finland. If you will pay the tuition fee only after submitting the application, you must have enough money in your bank account to cover the tuition fee for the first year of studies and your living costs in Finland. This money must be in your bank account when you submit the residence permit application. Funds intended for living in Finland cannot be used to pay the tuition fee. If you have received a scholarship to cover your tuition fee, please attach a certificate issued by your educational institution of the scholarship to your application. In addition, you need to have sufficient funds for living in Finland. Read more on the page Tuition fees. When you are applying for an extended permit, you may secure your resources with work If you have been granted a residence permit for studies, you are allowed to work in paid employment in any field for an average of 30 hours per week. The number of working hours can be exceeded some weeks, as long as the average working hours are no more than 30 hours per week at the end of the year. However, your work may not slow down your studies. Your studies must progress at a normal pace. Read more about right to work. The Finnish Immigration Service receives information about your salaries and benefits from the Incomes Register. Therefore, you do not need to attach certificates of salaries or benefits to your application. If we need further information, we will send you a request for additional information. Read more on the page Incomes Register. How do I prove my income? Add to your application proof of how you will finance your stay in Finland during the first year of studies. Attach a bank statement covering the past three months to your application, showing that you have enough money in your bank account. The bank statement must show the name of the account holder, the name of the bank, and the currency. You need to have enough money in your own bank account that is in your personal use only. If you submit your residence permit application before paying the tuition fee, you must, in any event, have the money for the tuition fee in your bank account already when you submit the application. You can have a bank account in any country, as long as you can use it in Finland. You must be able to withdraw money from the account when you are in Finland. If you are under the age of 18 or an exchange student, the bank account can be a joint bank account that you share with your guardian. The bank statement must include a statement of your right to access the bank account. If you submit your residence permit application before paying the tuition fee, you must, in any event, have the money for the tuition fee in your bank account already when you submit the application. You can have a bank account in any country, as long as you can use it in Finland. You must be able to withdraw money from the account when you are in Finland. If you are under the age of 18 or an exchange student, the bank account can be a joint bank account that you share with your guardian. The bank statement must include a statement of your right to access the bank account. Sponsorship agreements provided by relatives, friends or employers are not acceptable. The money must be in your own bank account. If you have received the money for instance from your parents or relatives (a sponsor), we may ask you to submit additional documents on the origin of the money. Such documents can be, for example, a tax certificate or a bank statement regarding the sponsor’s assets. If you have received the money for instance from your parents or relatives (a sponsor), we may ask you to submit additional documents on the origin of the money. Such documents can be, for example, a tax certificate or a bank statement regarding the sponsor’s assets. If your educational institution provides you with for instance free accommodation and meals, you should attach to your application a certificate of the benefits offered by your educational institution. If you have been awarded a grant or scholarship by a state, an organisation or an educational institution, please attach the grant or scholarship decision to your application. When applying for an extended permit, please attach a bank statement to your application, showing that you have enough money in your bank account. A deposit in a Finnish bank account is the easiest and most reliable way to show that you have sufficient financial resources. A deposit in a Finnish bank account is the easiest and most reliable way to show that you have sufficient financial resources. please attach to your application your employment contract if you are employed. You do not need to send us payslips. We receive information about your income from the Incomes Register. If we need further information, we will send you a request for additional information. You do not need to send us payslips. We receive information about your income from the Incomes Register. If we need further information, we will send you a request for additional information. Are you looking for these? Student’s family members

Context: After graduation
You can apply for a residence permit on the basis of a degree completed in Finland or research work completed in Finland, if you have a job and you have either studied and completed a degree in Finland or completed your research in Finland. You can apply for a residence permit to look for work or to start a business, if you have or have had a residence permit for studies or for research and you do not yet have a job or you have a job but you do not earn enough to be issued with a residence permit on the basis of work. Are you looking for these? Business Finland (businessfinland.com) Jobs in Finland (jobsinfinland.fi) Job Market Finland (tyomarkkinatori.fi) Study in Finland (studyinfinland.fi) Moving to Finland as a researcher Customer bulletins - residence permits Renew your residence permit card on Enter Finland for a lower fee and without a service point visit Apply for a residence permit for an employed person to pick wild berries in Finland Customers under 18 years of age can now avoid having to visit a service point when renewing their residence permit card Effects of the strikes on 1–2 February 2024 on customers of the Finnish Immigration Service Information for partners: All residence permits granted on the basis of temporary protection will be extended on 9–16 February 2024

Context: Residence permit application for studies
Apply for a residence permit with this application if you are moving to Finland to study and you have been accepted as a student at an educational institution in Finland. The educational institution can be a university, a university of applied sciences, a general upper secondary school or a vocational education institution. You may apply for a residence permit for studies, if your studies lead to a degree or a vocational qualification, or you are coming to Finland as an exchange student. You cannot be granted a residence permit for studies, if your studies mainly consist of distance learning online and do not require you to stay in Finland. If you wish to visit Finland for a shorter period of time, find out whether you can get a visa. For information on extended permits, see the page Extended permit for studies. Before applying, watch our video about students’ residence permits. The video will show you how to apply for a student’s residence permit in Finland. Expected processing time for electronic application First permit 1 month Expected processing time for electronic application First permit 1 month Expected processing time for paper application First permit 3 months Expected processing time for paper application First permit 3 months Electronic application fee First permit 350 € Electronic application fee First permit 350 € Electronic application fee, minor holder First permit 240 € Electronic application fee, minor holder First permit 240 € Paper application fee First permit 450 € Paper application fee First permit 450 € Paper application fee, minor holder First permit 270 € Paper application fee, minor holder First permit 270 € You can apply for a D visa at the same time as you apply for a residence permit. The D visa allows you to travel to Finland immediately after you have been issued with a residence permit and a D visa sticker has been attached to your passport. You should apply for a D visa only if you can travel to Finland within two weeks of being granted a residence permit, because you need to be able to collect your residence permit card from a collection point in Finland. With a D visa, you can arrive in Finland during a time period of 100 days before the residence permit becomes valid. The validity period of your D visa needs to overlap with the validity period of your residence permit for at least one day. Please note that if you apply for a residence permit long before your studies begin, it may not necessarily be possible to grant you a D visa together with the residence permit. In such cases, it is possible that your card is delivered to Finland but you are not necessarily able to collect it from the collection point in Finland. If this happens, someone else can pick up the card for you. Read more about the D visa. Are you applying for a first residence permit for studies? Check out our guide for students! When you answer the questions in the guide, you can easily find exactly the information you need. The guide also enables you to compile a checklist of the attachments required for your application. This is what you should do Prepare: 1 Make sure you meet the requirements for the residence permit for studies 1. You need to be able to support yourself in Finland for the entire duration of your studies. You must have at least EUR 560 at your disposal every month to be able to pay for your accommodation, food and other needs. Add to your application proof of how you will finance your stay in Finland during the first year of studies. you must have 6,720 euros in your bank account when you submit the application. you must have 6,720 euros in your bank account when you submit the application. If your studies will take less than one year, you must have 560 euros per month at your disposal. If you will pay the tuition fee at a later stage, you must have the money for the tuition fee in your bank account when you submit the residence permit application. If your educational institution supports your living in Finland, you do not necessarily need to have 560 euros per month at your disposal. Attach to your application documentation of the support your educational institution provides. Read more about income requirements. 2. You have a study place You can get a residence permit if you have been accepted to study at an educational institution in Finland. Your studies must lead to a vocational qualification or a degree. You may also get a residence permit for other types of studies if you have a well-founded reason for it. You cannot get a residence permit for studies to complete basic education.Read more on the page Study place. 3. You have insurance As a student, you must personally cover the costs if you become ill in Finland. In order to get a residence permit, you must take out private insurance that will cover your medical and pharmaceutical expenses. Attach a certificate of insurance to your application. Your insurance must be valid when you arrive in Finland. If you have a Kela card, a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) or a UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) you do not need to take out other insurance. Read more about the insurance you need, and about accepted insurance companies, on the page Insurance. See also the general requirements for granting a residence permit. 2 Make sure you have all the attachments needed. This will speed up the processing of your application If necessary, have the attachments translated and legalised. General attachments A valid passport accepted by Finland (um.fi). Present your passport when you submit your residence permit application A passport photo complying with the photo guidelines issued by the police, or a photograph retrieval code you received from a photo shop The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. Colour copy of the passport page containing your personal data If applicable, a document showing that you are legally staying in the country where you submit your residence permit application to Finland (your visa or residence permit, for example) Form MP_1 (if you already are in Finland and apply for your first residence permit) Application-specific attachments Certificate of acceptance/attendance from your educational institution in Finland Documentation of sufficient financial resources. For example a bank statement covering the past three months Certificate of insurance Documentation of paid tuition fee or documentation of scholarship. Earlier degree certificates (not required of degree students and exchange students) Potential certificates of employment (not required of degree students and exchange students) If you are under 18 years of age, you should also attach to your application a birth certificate your parent’s or guardian’s consent for you to move to Finland. Fill in the application: 1 Fill in the application and add your documents You can fill in the application online in Enter Finland. The fee for an online application is lower than for a paper application. If you apply for your first residence permit in Enter Finland, you might not need to visit a service point when you apply for an extended permit. If you cannot use Enter Finland, fill in a paper application. You will find a link to the application at the bottom of the page. 2 Pay for your application If you apply for a residence permit online in Enter Finland, you need to pay the processing fee with a credit card or with Finnish online banking credentials when you submit your application, or when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. If you apply for a residence permit with a paper application, you need to pay the processing fee when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. 3 Visit an embassy, consulate or service point to prove your identity If you are abroad, book an appointment at a Finnish mission (embassy or consulate). If you are in Finland, book an appointment at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service. When you apply for an extended permit, you may avoid the need to visit a service point to prove your identity if you log in Enter Finland using Finnish online banking credentials. Read more on the page Identification. For more information, see: Handling your matters at a Finnish mission Handling matters at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service 4 Wait for the decision, the Finnish Immigration Service will contact you if necessary If you applied online in Enter Finland, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email and text message. If you applied on paper, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email. For more information, see: Processing of applications 5 Follow the processing You can follow the processing of your application with the help of our chatbot, Kamu, by giving Kamu the diary number of your application. Kamu will also tell you the expected processing time of your application. For more information, see: What affects the processing time of your application 6 Wait for the residence permit in the same country or locality where you submitted your application and proved your identity You may work in paid employment for a maximum of 30 hours per week on average If you have been granted a residence permit for studies, you are allowed to work in paid employment in any field for an average of 30 hours per week. The number of working hours can be exceeded some weeks, as long as the average working hours are no more than 30 hours per week at the end of the year. During holidays, for example, you may work full-time in any field, provided that your average working hours are no more than 30 hours per week at the end of the year. In other words, you may work for an average of 120 hours per month or a total of 1,560 hours per year. If your degree requires completing internships or a diploma work, the working time restrictions do not apply to them. In other words, the weekly 30-hour limit is not applied to them if it has been agreed already while making the agreement that you will earn credits from them. If the work is registered afterwards as an internship included in your studies, the 30-hour limit will apply. Your employer checks how many hours your residence permit allows you to work. Both you and your employer are responsible for ensuring that the maximum number of hours is not exceeded. The authority responsible for overseeing working times is the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (tyosuojelu.fi). If your residence permit was granted before the legislative amendments that entered into force on 15 April 2022, you have the same right to work as those who have a new residence permit. In other words, you may work for 30 hours per week on average. Your residence permit can be either an A permit or a B permit If you are coming to Finland to pursue a higher education degree, you will be granted an A permit, that is, a continuous residence permit. a degree other than a higher education degree, you will be granted a B permit, that is, a temporary residence permit. B permits are also granted to exchange students. If you have an A permit: you can be assigned a municipality of residence if you apply for it from the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about who can get a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). you can apply for a permanent residence permit when you have graduated and lived in Finland with an A permit for four years. your family members can be granted an A permit. The duration of a family member’s first A permit is one year at the most. The duration of a family member’s extended permit is four years at the most. you can complete some of your studies in another EU Member State. Check with the country where you intend to study whether you need to submit a mobility notification there. If you have a B permit: you can be assigned a municipality of residence but there are more conditions you need to meet than with an A permit. You can apply for a municipality of residence from the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about who can get a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). your family members can be granted a B permit. your permit does not give you the right to study in any other EU Member State. You can change your B permit to an A permit if you study for a degree at a higher education institution in Finland you meet the other conditions for the residence permit, and you submit a new residence permit application. If your studies do not lead to a higher education degree, you cannot get an A permit. Read more about residence permit types. Residence permit application for studies, OLE_OPI Prepare for your life in Finland 1 When you arrive in Finland, the border authorities may ask you to prove that you still meet all the requirements for the residence permit Among other things, the authorities may ask you for information about whether you have enough money to live in Finland. 2 Contact the Digital and Population Data Services Agency to get a municipality of residence and a personal identity code If you were not issued a personal identity code together with your residence permit card, you must visit a service location of the Digital and Population Data Services Agency in person. The Digital and Population Data Services Agency enters your personal details, information about your family relations and your address in the Population Information System. You can also apply for a municipality of residence at the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. For more information, visit the website of the Digital and Population Data Services Agency (dvv.fi) 3 Apply for an extended permit before your first permit expires if you decide to stay in Finland

Context: Tuition fees
Finnish institutions of higher education charge tuition fees from degree students who arrive from outside the EU and the EEA. You must attach to your application evidence that the fees charged by the higher education institution have been paid. As an exchange student you do not need to pay tuition fees if your studies are covered by an exchange programme or an agreement. 1 I have already paid the tuition fee If you already have paid the tuition fee, you should attach documents to your residence permit application to show that the fee has been paid. 2 I will pay the tuition fee later If you have not yet paid the tuition fee, you should attach documents to your residence permit application to show that you have the necessary funds to pay your tuition fee and to support yourself in Finland. You cannot pay the tuition fee using the funds reserved for your day-to-day living. 3 I have been awarded a grant to cover the tuition fee If you have been awarded a grant to cover the tuition fee, attach a certificate of the scholarship from your educational institution to your application. Even if you have been awarded a grant, you must still have enough money to cover your living costs in Finland. 4 I have been exempted from paying tuition fees If you are not required to pay tuition fees, attach to your application a certificate from your educational institution regarding the exemption. You must also have enough money to cover your living costs in Finland. For more information about tuition fees, see the website Studyinfo (opintopolku.fi) or contact your educational institution. Customer bulletins - studies Some students may now receive an automated decision on their first residence permit application Do you have a residence permit for studies? This autumn, we will carry out automatic post-decision monitoring and check that you still meet the requirements for the permit Backlogs in the processing of residence permits for studies Are you applying for a residence permit for a student or a researcher or is your employer certified? With a D visa, you can travel to Finland immediately after you have been issued with a residence permit Are you coming to Finland to work or study? Check out our new guides to learn how to apply for a residence permit for Finland

Context: Student’s family members
If you are a student’s family member, you can apply for a residence permit for Finland. The following people, among others, are considered family members of a Finnish citizen and a foreign national who is not an EU citizen: a spouse a registered partner a child under 18 years of age. You can find family members’ applications on the “Moving to Finland to be with a family member” page. You need to have sufficient financial resources for living in Finland In the table below, you can see how much money you will need for living in Finland. You need to have the money in your account when applying for a residence permit. EUR amounts indicating how much money you will need for living in Finland Example The family consists of one adult student, another adult and two underage children. The family is required to have an income of EUR 2,160 per month (EUR 560+700+500+400). You have an unrestricted right to work and study If you have been issued with a residence permit on the grounds of family ties, you have an unrestricted right to work and study in Finland. If you have been issued with a residence permit on the basis of an intimate relationship, you can work under certain conditions. The residence permit of a student’s family member may be an A permit or a B permit The family members of higher education students who carry out studies leading to a degree are issued with an A permit, or a continuous residence permit The duration of the first A permit can be a year at the maximum. You can get an extended permit for a maximum of four years. If you have an A permit, you can get a municipality of residence if you apply for it at the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about the prerequisites for getting a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). If you have a municipality of residence, you can also use public healthcare services. You can apply for a permanent residence permit when you have lived in Finland for four years with an A permit. The family members of students other than higher education students who carry out studies leading to a degree are issued with a temporary residence permit, or a B permit If you have a B permit, you can get a municipality of residence but it is subject to more prerequisites than with an A permit. You can apply for a municipality of residence at the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about the prerequisites for getting a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). if you have a municipality of residence, you can also use public healthcare services. if you have a municipality of residence, you can also use public healthcare services.

Context: Application for students and researchers: residence permit to look for work or to start a business
Apply for a residence permit with this application if you need a residence permit to look for work or to start a business and you do not yet have a job. The permit must be applied for within five years from the date when your residence permit for studies or research expired. If you are abroad, apply for this permit as a first residence permit. When you wish to apply for an extended permit, submit the application before your current permit expires. You can apply for this permit as an extended permit when you have graduated. You must attach your degree certificate to the application. However, you can submit an application already now if you will receive your degree certificate within three months. Attach the certificate to your application as soon as you receive it. Read more about extended permits. Expected processing time for online application: First permit 1–2 months / Extended permit 2 months Expected processing time for online application: First permit 1–2 months / Extended permit 2 months Expected processing time for paper application: First permit 2 months / Extended permit 2–4 months Expected processing time for paper application: First permit 2 months / Extended permit 2–4 months Online application fee: First permit 470 € / Extended permit 170 € Online application fee: First permit 470 € / Extended permit 170 € Paper application fee: First permit 520€ / Extended permit 430 € Paper application fee: First permit 520€ / Extended permit 430 € You may get the permit for two years at the most If you wish, you can take the permit in three parts. In that case, the duration of each part must be at least six months, and the last part must end within three years of the date when the first part started. You can apply for a residence permit with this application also if you already have a job but you do not earn enough to be issued with a residence permit on the basis of work. This is what you should do Prepare: 1 Make sure you meet the requirements for the residence permit to look for work 1. You have or have had a residence permit for studies or for research. 2. You have studied and completed a degree in Finland, or you have finished your research work or completed a doctoral degree in Finland. 3. You have not yet found a job. 4. You have sufficient funds for living in Finland. It is your responsibility to ensure that you have sufficient financial resources for living in Finland. You need to have at least 560 euros per month at your disposal to be able to pay for your accommodation, food and other needs. For example, if you apply for the permit for 2 years, you must have at least 13,440 euros at your disposal. When you are applying for an extended permit, you may secure your means of support with work. The Finnish Immigration Service receives information about your salaries and benefits from the Incomes Register. Therefore, you do not need to attach certificates of salaries or benefits to your application. If we need further information, we will send you a request for additional information. Read more on the page Incomes Register. See also the general requirements for granting a residence permit. 2 Make sure you have all the attachments needed. This will speed up the processing of your application If necessary, have the attachments translated and legalised. General attachments Valid passport accepted by Finland (um.fi). Present your passport when you submit your residence permit application. A passport photo complying with the photo guidelines issued by the police, or a photograph retrieval code you received from a photo shop The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. Color copies of the passport page containing personal data and all pages that contain notes Application-specific attachments Student, attach to your application: a degree certificate documentation of sufficient financial resources Researcher, attach to your application: a degree certificate or a document on the completion of the research work. This document should include the following details: the topic and title of the research where the research was conducted what you have done in the research when the research was conducted confirmation by the research organisation of the completion of the research list of publications you have contributed to the topic and title of the research where the research was conducted what you have done in the research when the research was conducted confirmation by the research organisation of the completion of the research list of publications you have contributed to documentation of sufficient financial resources Fill in the application: 1 Fill in the application and add your documents You can fill in the application online in Enter Finland. The fee for an online application is lower than for a paper application. If you apply for your first residence permit in Enter Finland, you might not need to visit a service point when you apply for an extended permit. If you cannot use Enter Finland, fill in a paper application. You will find a link to the application at the bottom of the page. 2 Pay for your application If you apply for a residence permit online in Enter Finland, you need to pay the processing fee with a credit card or with Finnish online banking credentials when you submit your application, or when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. If you apply for a residence permit with a paper application, you need to pay the processing fee when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. 3 Visit an embassy, consulate or service point to prove your identity If you are abroad, book an appointment at a Finnish mission (embassy or consulate). If you are in Finland, book an appointment at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service. When you apply for an extended permit, you may avoid the need to visit a service point to prove your identity if you log in Enter Finland using Finnish online banking credentials. Read more on the page Identification. For more information, see: Handling your matters at a Finnish mission Handling matters at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service 4 Wait for the decision, the Finnish Immigration Service will contact you if necessary If you applied online in Enter Finland, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email and text message. If you applied on paper, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email. For more information, see: Processing of applications 5 Follow the processing You can follow the processing of your application with the help of our chatbot, Kamu, by giving Kamu the diary number of your application. Kamu will also tell you the expected processing time of your application. For more information, see: What affects the processing time of your application 6 Wait for the residence permit in the same country or locality where you submitted your application and proved your identity When can I start working? If you have a residence permit to look for work, you can work without restrictions regardless of your field of study. If you apply for an extended permit before your previous residence permit expires, you can start working immediately after you have found a job or started a business. If you submit your application too late, you cannot start working before you receive a decision to your application. If you are applying for a first residence permit, you can start working as soon as you receive a positive decision. What should I do when I find a job? Apply for a new residence permit on the basis of work before the expiry of your residence permit to look for work. Check which of these two permits you can apply for: Degree completed in Finland or Research completed in Finland. Your residence permit can be either an A permit or a B permit Your residence permit to look for work will be an A permit, that is, a continuous residence permit, if your previous residence permit as a student or researcher was an A permit. Likewise, if your previous residence permit as a student or researcher was a B permit, that is, a temporary residence permit, your residence permit to look for work will also be a B permit. If you have an A permit: you can be assigned a municipality of residence if you apply for it from the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about who can get a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). You can apply for a permanent residence permit when you have graduated or completed your research and lived in Finland with an A permit for four years. If you have a B permit: you can be assigned a municipality of residence but there are more conditions you need to meet than with an A permit. You can apply for a municipality of residence from the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about who can get a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). First residence permit: Application for students and researchers: residence permit to look for work or to start a business, OLE_tyonhaku Extended permit: Application for students and researchers: residence permit to look for work or to start a business, OLE_tyonhaku Prepare for your life in Finland 1 When you arrive in Finland, the border authorities may ask you to prove that you still meet all the requirements for the residence permit Among other things, the authorities may ask you for information about whether you have enough money to live in Finland. 2 Contact the Digital and Population Data Services Agency to get a municipality of residence and a personal identity code If you were not issued a personal identity code together with your residence permit card, you must visit a service location of the Digital and Population Data Services Agency in person. The Digital and Population Data Services Agency enters your personal details, information about your family relations and your address in the Population Information System. You can also apply for a municipality of residence at the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. For more information, visit the website of the Digital and Population Data Services Agency (dvv.fi) 3 Apply for an extended permit before your first permit expires if you decide to stay in Finland

Context: Residence permit application for person with a degree completed in Finland
Use this application to apply for a residence permit on the basis of work if: you have studied and completed a degree or qualification in Finland; and you have a job, pursue a trade or engage in business activities in Finland. You can apply for this permit regardless of which permit you had during your studies. Since you have completed a degree in Finland, you do not need to apply for a residence permit for an employed person or for a residence permit for an entrepreneur, for example. The degree you have completed in Finland does not need to be recent: you may apply for this permit even if time has passed since you completed your degree. Expected processing time for an electronic application First permit 2 months / extended permit 2 months Expected processing time for an electronic application First permit 2 months / extended permit 2 months Expected processing time for a paper application First permit 2 months / extended permit 2 months Expected processing time for a paper application First permit 2 months / extended permit 2 months Electronic application fee First permit 380 € / extended permit 170 € Electronic application fee First permit 380 € / extended permit 170 € Paper application fee First permit 480 € / extended permit 430 € Paper application fee First permit 480 € / extended permit 430 € You can apply for this permit if you have completed all of your studies and you will receive a degree certificate within one month. Attach the degree certificate to your application as soon as you receive it. In that case, add to your application a document from your educational institution on your studies and mention when you will graduate. The permit can be granted after you have graduated. If you will receive your certificate later and must already apply for a new residence permit, you can, for example, apply for a residence permit for studies for the duration of your remaining studies. If you have graduated for over a month ago, you do not need to attach a degree certificate to your application. We can obtain your degree certificate from the study register. If your employer has obtained employer certification, you can apply for a D visa at the same time as you apply for a residence permit. The D visa allows you to travel to Finland immediately after you have been issued with a residence permit and a D visa sticker has been attached to your passport. Read more about the D visa. Your spouse and children can apply for a D visa if they are applying for a residence permit on the basis of family ties. This is what you should do Prepare: 1 Make sure you meet the requirements for the residence permit for person with a degree completed in Finland You have studied and completed a degree or qualification in Finland. Your degree can be, for instance, a higher education degree completed at a university or at a university of applied sciences. It can also be the Finnish matriculation examination, an initial vocational qualification, a further vocational qualification or a specialist vocational qualification. Certificates of competence area are not degrees. You have a job, pursue a trade or engage in business activities in Finland. If you have a job, your employer must supplement your application by filling in your terms of employment either online in Enter Finland for Employers or by using a paper form. If you do not yet have a job, you do not pursue a trade or business or you are not an entrepreneur, you can apply for a residence permit to look for work or to start a business. You need to have sufficient income in Finland during the entire time your residence permit is valid. In 2024, your income must be at least EUR 1,000 per month (net). You may combine different income sources: You can earn your living through employment in the service of an employer, through your company's business activities or by pursuing a trade, or you can use more than one of these income sources to meet the requirement. Other forms of income, such as your savings, may also be counted towards the required sum. Read more on the page Income requirement. If you have a job but you do not earn enough or have enough savings to be granted a residence permit on the basis of work, you can apply for a residence permit to look for work or to start a business. When you apply for an extended permit When you apply for an extended permit, the Finnish Immigration Service will check whether your salary and income have been sufficient. If you have completed your studies in full and are about to finish your degree, you can submit your application before getting a degree certificate. In that case, add to your application a certificate from your educational institution on your studies and mention when you will graduate. However, the permit can only be granted after you have graduated. In addition, you must meet the general requirements for obtaining a residence permit. See also the general requirements for granting a residence permit. 2 Make sure you have all the attachments needed. This will speed up the processing of your application If necessary, have the attachments translated and legalised. General attachments A valid passport accepted by Finland (um.fi). Present your passport when you submit your residence permit application A passport photo complying with the photo guidelines issued by the police, or a photograph retrieval code you received from a photo shop The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. Colour copies of the passport page containing personal data and of all passport pages that contain notes Document showing that you are legally staying in the country where you submit the application Form MP_1 (pdf) (if you already are in Finland and apply for your first residence permit) Application-specific attachments a degree certificate or a document on the degree or studies you have completed if you will receive your degree certificate within one month or have completed all of your studies. Attach the degree certificate to your application as soon as you receive it. In that case, add to your application a document from your educational institution on your studies and mention when you will graduate. The permit can be granted after you have graduated. If you have graduated for over a month ago, you do not need to attach a degree certificate to your application. We will obtain your degree certificate from the study register. Attach the degree certificate to your application as soon as you receive it. In that case, add to your application a document from your educational institution on your studies and mention when you will graduate. The permit can be granted after you have graduated. If you have graduated for over a month ago, you do not need to attach a degree certificate to your application. We will obtain your degree certificate from the study register. If you pursue a trade or engage in business activities: Contracts with clients, or an explanation of how you will earn income from pursuing a trade or a business if you have not signed any contracts with clients. Contracts with clients, or an explanation of how you will earn income from pursuing a trade or a business if you have not signed any contracts with clients. Fill in the application: 1 Fill in the application and add your documents You can fill in the application online in Enter Finland. The fee for an online application is lower than for a paper application. If you apply for your first residence permit in Enter Finland, you might not need to visit a service point when you apply for an extended permit. If you cannot use Enter Finland, fill in a paper application. You will find a link to the application at the bottom of the page. 2 Pay for your application If you apply for a residence permit online in Enter Finland, you need to pay the processing fee with a credit card or with Finnish online banking credentials when you submit your application, or when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. If you apply for a residence permit with a paper application, you need to pay the processing fee when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. 3 Your employer must supplement your application After you have submitted your application in Enter Finland, your employer must add your terms of employment and other required documents to your application using Enter Finland for Employers. See the page Filling in the terms of employment to check what information your employer needs to fill in and which attachments are required. An employer who is not able to use Enter Finland for Employers can fill in the ‘Terms of employment’ paper form. In that case, you need to attach the form to your application in Enter Finland. If you are submitting your residence permit application on paper, have your employer fill in the form ‘Terms of employment’ and attach the form to your application. If you pursue a trade or business and are not an employee, you do not need to fill in the terms of employment. 4 Visit an embassy, consulate or service point to prove your identity If you are abroad, book an appointment at a Finnish mission (embassy or consulate). If you are in Finland, book an appointment at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service. When you apply for an extended permit, you may avoid the need to visit a service point to prove your identity if you log in Enter Finland using Finnish online banking credentials. Read more on the page Identification. For more information, see: Handling your matters at a Finnish mission Handling matters at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service 5 Wait for the decision, the Finnish Immigration Service will contact you if necessary If you applied online in Enter Finland, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email and text message. If you applied on paper, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email. For more information, see: Processing of applications 6 Follow the processing You can follow the processing of your application with the help of our chatbot, Kamu, by giving Kamu the diary number of your application. Kamu will also tell you the expected processing time of your application. For more information, see: What affects the processing time of your application 7 Wait for the residence permit in the same country or locality where you submitted your application and proved your identity When can I start working? First residence permit You cannot start working before you get a residence permit. Once you are granted a residence permit on the basis of a degree completed in Finland, you may work without restrictions. Extended permit If your current permit is a residence permit for studies and you apply for an extended permit on the basis of a degree before your current permit expires, you are allowed to continue working or start a new job already before the extended permit has been issued. You may work without restrictions. Read more on the page Right to work while your application for an extended permit is being processed. Useful links How to use Enter Finland Frequently asked questions: Online service Enter Finland Using strong identification in Enter Finland For a family member Apply for first permit Apply for an extended permit Prepare for your life in Finland 1 When you arrive in Finland, the border authorities may ask you to prove that you still meet all the requirements for the residence permit Among other things, the authorities may ask you for information about whether you have enough money to live in Finland. 2 Contact the Digital and Population Data Services Agency to get a municipality of residence and a personal identity code If you were not issued a personal identity code together with your residence permit card, you must visit a service location of the Digital and Population Data Services Agency in person. The Digital and Population Data Services Agency enters your personal details, information about your family relations and your address in the Population Information System. You can also apply for a municipality of residence at the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. For more information, visit the website of the Digital and Population Data Services Agency (dvv.fi) 3 Apply for an extended permit before your first permit expires if you decide to stay in Finland

Context: Extended permit for studies
If you have not graduated in the expected time, you may be granted an extended permit so that you can complete your studies. You must present documentation of the duration of your remaining studies. You may be granted an extended permit for the duration of your right to study. You can also apply for the permit for a shorter time. You may be refused a residence permit, if you do not make enough progress in your studies. You must complete at least 45 credits during an academic year. If you have completed fewer credits, you must attach to your application a statement of the reasons why you have not made enough progress in your studies. If you are writing a thesis, for example, you should submit a statement from your supervisor. Apply using the same form you used to apply for a first permit. If you are applying for an extended permit through the Enter Finland service and have used strong electronic identification, you do not necessarily need to prove your identity and can provide your fingerprints at a service point. Enter Finland will tell you whether you have to visit a service point or whether the electronic identification is sufficient. Application process when you are applying for an extended permit on the basis of studies 1 Submitting the application Submit the application in the e-service Enter Finland or on paper. After you have filled in the application, you must visit a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service. If you applied online, visit a service point to prove your identity and have your fingerprints taken. If you submit your application through the e-service, pay for it there or at the service point. If you have filled in a paper application, bring it with you. Have your fingerprints taken, prove your identity and submit copies of the attachments to your application. Pay for your application at the service point. 2 Processing of the application The Finnish Immigration Service processes all residence permit applications for studies as high-priority applications. You can find the expected processing times on the page Processing times. You may also use the Processing Time Checker to get an estimate on the remaining processing time of your application. You can follow the processing of your application with the help of our chatbot Kamu. In addition, you will usually receive automated messages at the different processing stages of your application. If we notice that something is missing from your application or if we need additional information from you, we will contact you. 3 Supplementing or cancelling your application If you need to supplement your application, you can do so in one of the following ways: Electronic application Send the additional information in the e-service through the page "Send additional information". This is the only way you can supplement an electronic application. Send the additional information in the e-service through the page "Send additional information". This is the only way you can supplement an electronic application. If you submitted a paper application: by post by email by bringing your additional documents to a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service during their opening hours. There is a postbox meant for additional documents in all of our service points. Put your documents in the box. by post by email by bringing your additional documents to a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service during their opening hours. There is a postbox meant for additional documents in all of our service points. Put your documents in the box. Read more on the page Notify us of changes. You may cancel your application at any time during its processing. Read more on the page Cancelling an application. 4 Decision and notification of the decision If you have applied for a residence permit through the e-service Enter Finland, you will get an e-mail or a text message when a decision has been made. You will also see it in your user account in the e-service. If you applied for a residence permit by submitting a paper application, you will be informed about the decision by the police, or the Finnish Immigration Service will inform you about it by post. You must be in Finland in order to receive a decision on your extended permit application. Some decisions will be sent by post with an advice of delivery. Read more about collecting your letter on the Advice of delivery page. If you get a positive decision, you will get a new residence permit card. If you receive a negative extended permit decision, you may be deported. 5 Appealing a decision If you are not satisfied with the decision, you have the right to appeal against the decision to an Administrative Court. Instructions on how to appeal will be attached to the decision. The majority of decisions made by the Administrative Courts are subject to a fee. Contact an Administrative Court to find out more about court fees. General attachments Valid passport accepted by Finland (um.fi). Present your passport when you submit your residence permit application A passport photo complying with the photo guidelines issued by the police, or a photograph retrieval code you received from a photo shop The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. Color copies of the passport page containing personal data and all pages that contain notes Customer bulletins - residence permits Renew your residence permit card on Enter Finland for a lower fee and without a service point visit Apply for a residence permit for an employed person to pick wild berries in Finland Customers under 18 years of age can now avoid having to visit a service point when renewing their residence permit card Effects of the strikes on 1–2 February 2024 on customers of the Finnish Immigration Service Information for partners: All residence permits granted on the basis of temporary protection will be extended on 9–16 February 2024

Context: Residence permit application for a researcher
Apply for a residence permit with this application if you are coming to Finland in order to conduct research, study for a licentiate degree or prepare a doctoral dissertation. You can be granted either a residence permit for research under the Directive or a national residence permit for research. When applying, you do not need to know which of the residence permits you are applying for. The Finnish Immigration Service will investigate which permit you can be issued with. A first residence permit for research can be granted for a maximum of two years. You can apply for a D visa at the same time as you apply for a residence permit. The D visa allows you to travel to Finland immediately after you have been issued with a residence permit and a D visa sticker has been attached to your passport. Read more about the D visa. Expected processing time for online application: first permit: 1 month / extended permit: 1 month Expected processing time for online application: first permit: 1 month / extended permit: 1 month Expected processing time for paper application first permit: 2–3 months / extended permit: 1–3 months Expected processing time for paper application first permit: 2–3 months / extended permit: 1–3 months Online application fee: first permit: 380 € / extended permit: 170 € Online application fee: first permit: 380 € / extended permit: 170 € Paper application fee: first permit: 480 € / extended permit: 430 € Paper application fee: first permit: 480 € / extended permit: 430 € You can be granted either a residence permit for research under the Directive or a national residence permit for research Residence permit for research for a person who holds a master’s degree (a second-cycle degree) You may be issued with a residence permit for research under the Students and researchers Directive (EU) 2016/801, if you hold a master’s degree (a second-cycle degree) and you have signed an agreement on research activity (a hosting agreement) with a research organisation. If you are granted a residence permit under the Directive, you have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the EU. This means that if you have signed an agreement on research activity with a research organisation in Finland, you can conduct part of the research in a second EU Member State. In that case, you should ask the competent authorities of the second EU Member State if you need to submit a mobility notification. A residence permit under the Directive is a continuous residence permit (an A permit). You cannot be granted a residence permit for research under the Directive in the following situations: You are applying for asylum in Finland. You have been granted international protection in an EU Member State. You have received a decision on deportation from Finland. Residence permit for research for a person who holds a bachelor's degree (a first-cycle degree) You may be issued with a national residence permit for research, if you hold a bachelor’s degree (a first-cycle degree) and you have signed an agreement on research activity (a hosting agreement) with a research organisation. If you are issued with a national residence permit for research, you do not have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the EU. This means that you can conduct research only in Finland. Depending on the length of the agreement signed by the research organisation and the researcher, a national residence permit for research can be temporary (a B permit) or continuous (an A permit). If the duration of the agreement is less than two years, you can be granted the B permit. If the duration of the agreement is two years or more, you can be granted the A permit. You may be issued with a national residence permit for research even if you have applied for or received international protection in an EU Member State or in Finland. A national residence permit for research may be granted also if you have received a decision on deportation from Finland. This is what you should do Prepare: 1 Make sure you meet the requirements for residence permit application for a researcher 1. You are a researcher. You hold a doctoral degree, a master’s degree (a second-cycle degree) or a bachelor’s degree (a first-cycle degree). You hold a doctoral degree, a master’s degree (a second-cycle degree) or a bachelor’s degree (a first-cycle degree). you have signed an agreement on research activity (a hosting agreement) with a research organisation. 2. A research organisation has signed a hosting agreement with you. To ensure that the hosting agreement contains all the necessary information, please see the contract template. To ensure that the hosting agreement contains all the necessary information, please see the contract template. 3. Income requirement You must have sufficient financial resources. If you are in an employment relationship with the research organisation, you must be able to earn your living in Finland through gainful employment throughout the time you stay in Finland. Your salary must at least correspond to the salary specified in the collective agreement that applies to your employment relationship. If there is no general collective agreement in your sector, your gross salary must be at least EUR 1,399 per month in 2024. Read more on the page Income requirement. Your salary must at least correspond to the salary specified in the collective agreement that applies to your employment relationship. If there is no general collective agreement in your sector, your gross salary must be at least EUR 1,399 per month in 2024. Read more on the page Income requirement. If you are not in an employment relationship, you must have at least EUR 1,000 per month at your disposal for your living costs in Finland. You can secure your income with funds, earnings from work or even other types of income, such as a research scholarship. Before you arrive in Finland, make sure that you have enough funds for the entire time you are carrying out your research: If you are coming to Finland to do research for less than a year, you must have sufficient financial resources for the entire time you spend here doing research. If you are coming to Finland to do research for at least one year, you must have sufficient financial resources for at least one year, that is 12,000 euros. You will be granted a residence permit for two years if you are going to do research for at least two years and have EUR 24,000 at your disposal. If you only want the residence permit for one year at a time, you must have EUR 12,000 at your disposal in your own bank account. We will assess your financial resources every time you submit an application to us. If necessary, we will ask you to submit additional documentation of the source of your assets. If you are not in an employment relationship, you must have at least EUR 1,000 per month at your disposal for your living costs in Finland. You can secure your income with funds, earnings from work or even other types of income, such as a research scholarship. Before you arrive in Finland, make sure that you have enough funds for the entire time you are carrying out your research: If you are coming to Finland to do research for less than a year, you must have sufficient financial resources for the entire time you spend here doing research. If you are coming to Finland to do research for at least one year, you must have sufficient financial resources for at least one year, that is 12,000 euros. You will be granted a residence permit for two years if you are going to do research for at least two years and have EUR 24,000 at your disposal. If you only want the residence permit for one year at a time, you must have EUR 12,000 at your disposal in your own bank account. We will assess your financial resources every time you submit an application to us. If necessary, we will ask you to submit additional documentation of the source of your assets. See also the general requirements for granting a residence permit. 2 Make sure you have all the attachments needed. This will speed up the processing of your application General attachments Valid passport accepted by Finland (um.fi). Present your passport when you submit your residence permit application. A passport photo complying with the photo guidelines issued by the police, or a photograph retrieval code you received from a photo shop The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. The passport photo must be no more than 6 months old. Colour copies of the passport page containing personal data and of all passport pages that contain notes Document showing that you are legally staying in the country where you submit the application Form MP_1 (if you already are in Finland and apply for your first residence permit) Application-specific attachments The agreement signed by the researcher and the research organisation, containing the following information: the title and purpose of the research activity or the research area; an undertaking by the researcher and the research organisation to endeavour to complete the research activity; the start and end date or the estimated duration of the research activity; information on the legal relationship between the research organisation and the researcher; information on the working conditions of the researcher, if the legal relationship between the research organisation and the researcher is an employment relationship; information on the intended mobility from Finland to another EU Member State, if the mobility is known at the time when the application is submitted; the title and purpose of the research activity or the research area; an undertaking by the researcher and the research organisation to endeavour to complete the research activity; the start and end date or the estimated duration of the research activity; information on the legal relationship between the research organisation and the researcher; information on the working conditions of the researcher, if the legal relationship between the research organisation and the researcher is an employment relationship; information on the intended mobility from Finland to another EU Member State, if the mobility is known at the time when the application is submitted; Certificate of the highest degree completed Clarification of income, if the legal relationship between the research organisation and the researcher is not an employment relationship. Clarification of income, if the legal relationship between the research organisation and the researcher is not an employment relationship. Fill in the application: 1 Fill in the application and add your documents You can fill in the application online in Enter Finland. The fee for an online application is lower than for a paper application. If you apply for your first residence permit in Enter Finland, you might not need to visit a service point when you apply for an extended permit. If you cannot use Enter Finland, fill in a paper application. You will find a link to the application at the bottom of the page. 2 Pay for your application If you apply for a residence permit online in Enter Finland, you need to pay the processing fee with a credit card or with Finnish online banking credentials when you submit your application, or when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. If you apply for a residence permit with a paper application, you need to pay the processing fee when you visit a Finnish embassy or consulate abroad or a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service in Finland to prove your identity. 3 Visit an embassy, consulate or service point to prove your identity If you are abroad, book an appointment at a Finnish mission (embassy or consulate). If you are in Finland, book an appointment at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service. When you apply for an extended permit, you may avoid the need to visit a service point to prove your identity if you log in Enter Finland using Finnish online banking credentials. Read more on the page Identification. For more information, see: Handling your matters at a Finnish mission Handling matters at a service point of the Finnish Immigration Service 4 Wait for the decision, the Finnish Immigration Service will contact you if necessary If you applied online in Enter Finland, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email and text message. If you applied on paper, you will receive notifications of your application's progress and of possible requests for additional information by email. For more information, see: Processing of applications 5 Follow the processing You can follow the processing of your application with the help of our chatbot, Kamu, by giving Kamu the diary number of your application. Kamu will also tell you the expected processing time of your application. For more information, see: What affects the processing time of your application 6 Wait for the residence permit in the same country or locality where you submitted your application and proved your identity Right to work If you are in Finland when you are applying for a residence permit, you have the right to work as a researcher already before you get a residence permit. In this case, you must reside in Finland legally (you have a valid visa or you are allowed to stay in Finland without a visa). However, your right to work will end after three months at the latest, or even earlier if your visa expires. Once you are granted a residence permit, you can also do other types of work while working as a researcher. You must, however, work full-time as a researcher and make progress in your research work. When you apply for an extended permit, the Finnish Immigration Service will check that you are making progress with your research work and that scientific research is still the main purpose of your stay in Finland. If you apply for an extended permit, check if you have the right to work while your application is being processed. Your residence permit can be either an A permit or a B permit If you hold a master’s degree, you will be granted an A permit, that is, a continuous residence permit. Depending on the length of the agreement signed by the research organisation and the researcher, a national residence permit for research can be temporary (a B permit) or continuous (an A permit). If the duration of the agreement is less than two years, you can be granted the B permit. If the duration of the agreement is two years or more, you can be granted the A permit. If you have an A permit: you can be assigned a municipality of residence if you apply for it from the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about who can get a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). you can apply for a permanent residence permit when you have completed your research and lived in Finland with an A permit for four years. your family members can be granted an A permit. The duration of a family member’s first A permit is one year at the most. The duration of a family member’s extended permit is four years at the most. You have the right to free movement within the European Union. This means that you can carry out part of your research in some other EU Member State if you have signed an agreement on your research activity with a research organisation in Finland. Check with the country where you intend to carry out part of your research whether you need to submit a mobility notification there. If you have a B permit: you can be assigned a municipality of residence but there are more conditions you need to meet than with an A permit. You can apply for a municipality of residence from the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. Read more about who can get a municipality of residence (dvv.fi). your family members can be granted a B permit. your permit does not give you the right to free movement within the European Union. This means that you can conduct research only in Finland. Read more about residence permit types. Residence permit application for scientific research, OLE_TUT Extended permit for a researcher, OLE_TUT
Context:Higher education
There are two kinds of higher education institutions in Finland:
universities of applied sciences (UAS) and
universities.
The mission of universities is to conduct scientific research and provide instruction and postgraduate education based on it. UAS train professionals in response to labour market needs and conduct research and development which supports instruction and promotes regional development in particular.
Both UAS and universities offer bachelor’s and master’s degree programmes, with some differences in admission criteria.
Higher education institutions also offer open studies and continuing education.
Finnish higher education institutions use the ECTS system (European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System) in measuring a student’s workload.
Context:Finnish universities of applied sciences (UAS)
Universities of Applied Sciences (UAS) have the mission to train professionals with emphasis on labour market needs and conduct research and development which supports instruction and promotes regional development in particular. The education in UAS emphasises co-operation with the business, industry and service sectors at the regional level in particular.
Universities of Applied Sciences (UAS) offer
Bachelor’s degrees
Master’s degrees
professional specialisation and
other adult education
open UAS education
Professional teacher education
Education is provided in 8 different fields.
UAS confer both Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees. Degrees are constructed to meet the evolving requirements and developmental needs of the working world by having a distinct emphasis on the occupational field. Graduates from UAS are qualified for various professional duties.
For those who wish to study in English, UAS in Finland provide around 100 Bachelor’s degree programmes and over 20 Master’s degree programmes.
UAS can also accept an applicant for Bachelor’s or Master’s degree if the applicant has other necessary knowledge and preparedness required for the studies. UAS select their students independently and entrance examinations are an important part of the selection procedures.

Context: Finnish universities
The mission of universities is to conduct scientific research and provide scientific and artistic undergraduate and postgraduate education based on it.
Universities in Finland offer study opportunities on different levels:
Bachelor’s degrees
Master’s degrees
postgraduate licentiate and doctoral degrees
continuing education
Open University education
Universities offer study options in 21 different fields.
For those who wish to study in English, universities in Finland provide around 10 Bachelor’s degree programmes and over 100 Master’s degree programmes.
Finnish universities have a three-cycle degree system:
The students first complete the Bachelor’s degree, after which they may complete the higher, Master’s degree. Usually, students admitted to universities' bachelor's programmes automatically get study rights for both the Bachelor’s and the Master’s degree.
If you have completed a Bachelor’s degree or corresponding studies you can apply for a Master’s degree programme.
If you have completed a Master's degree or corresponding studies you can apply to a Doctoral programme.
The extent of the Bachelor’s level degree is 180 ECTS credits and takes approximately three years to finish. The Master’s degree comprises 120 ECTS credits, which means two years of full-time studies in addition to the lower degree. In some fields, for example Medicine, the degrees are more extensive and take longer to complete.
Universities conduct a system of personal study plans with the aim to facilitate the planning of studies and the monitoring of progress in studies and to support student guidance and counselling.

Context :ECTS credit system
Finnish higher education institutions use the ECTS system (European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System) in measuring a student’s workload. In this system one full-time academic year is equivalent to 60 higher education credits.
When you complete your studies successfully, you are awarded with ECTS credits.
The ECTS system is a tool that helps to describe and compare study programmes and award higher education qualifications. It is used across the European Union and other collaborating European countries.

Context How to apply for bachelor’s and master’s

There are two ways to apply to a higher education degree programme in Finland: joint application or separate application. Make sure to check how and when you need to apply to your chosen study programme. There is no application fee, applying is always free.
More information can be found from the study programme descriptions.
Bachelor’s programmes
Bachelor's programmes are a type of higher education study programmes where a bachelor's degree is awarded upon completion. Bachelor's degree is an undergraduate academic degree awarded by universities and universities of applied sciences upon completion of a course of study lasting three to four and a half years demonstrating:
Advanced knowledge of a field of work or study, involving a critical understanding of theories and principles,
advanced skills, demonstrating mastery and innovation, required to solve complex and unpredictable problems in a specialised field of work or study and
Manage complex technical or professional activities or projects, taking responsibility for decision-making in unpredictable work or study contexts; take responsibility for managing professional development of individuals and groups


Context :Who can apply for bachelor’s level studies?
In most cases you are eligible to apply for bachelor’s level studies in Finland if you are eligible to apply for higher education in your home country.
Eligibility to apply for bachelor’s degree programmes depends on having completed at least one of the following:
the Finnish matriculation examination
an International Baccalaureate (IB) diploma
a European Baccalaureate (EB) diploma
a Reifeprüfung (RP) diploma or Deutsche Internationale Abitur (DIA) diploma
vocational qualifications of three years or more in duration
a Finnish vocational upper secondary qualification, a further or specialist vocational qualification, or a comparable previous qualification or
a foreign qualification that provides eligibility for higher education studies in the awarding country
Depending on the higher education institution, you can additionally be eligible if you hold an Advanced International Certificate of Education degree (AICE) in Finland, have the right to study towards a university degree in Finland, or hold a degree conferred by a Finnish higher education institution or at least a bachelor's level degree conferred by a foreign institution.
Also check language skill requirements from the higher education institution before you apply.
Always check specific admission criteria directly from the study programme description before you fill out an application form.

Context :How to apply for bachelor’s level studies
Bachelor’s level studies are provided by both universities and universities of applied sciences (UAS). You can apply for most of the bachelor’s level studies conducted in English in joint application to higher education.
Read more about joint application and how to apply.
Master’s programmes
Master's programmes are a type of higher education study programmes . A master's degree is an academic degree awarded by universities and universities of applied sciences upon completion of a course of study lasting one to two years after a bachelor's degree, demonstrating:
highly specialised knowledge, some of which is at the forefront of knowledge in a field of work or study, as the basis for original thinking and/or research,
specialised problem-solving skills required in research and/or innovation in order to develop new knowledge and procedures and to integrate knowledge from different fields and
Manage and transform work or study contexts that are complex, unpredictable and require new strategic approaches; take responsibility for contributing to professional knowledge and practice and/or for reviewing the strategic performance of teams.
Read more about master's degrees
List of Master's degree programmes in universities and in universities of applied sciences
Who can apply for master’s level studies in universities of applied sciences (UAS)?
In order to be eligible to apply for a UAS master’s level degree programme you must have completed a suitable bachelor’s level degree or other higher education degree and have a minimum of two years of work experience after the completion of the bachelor’s degree.
In certain fields of UAS master’s degrees, that is Crafts and Design, Media and Visual Arts, Theatre and Dance, and Music, the work experience can be replaced with artistic activities and merits.
Always check specific admission criteria directly from the study programme description.
List of master's degree programmes in universities of applied sciences
Who can apply for master’s level studies in universities?
In order to be eligible to apply for a master's level degree programme in a university you must have completed (or must complete by a specific deadline determined by the university) a bachelor’s degree from a university or a university of applied sciences (UAS) bachelor’s degree.
Always check specific admission criteria directly from the study programme description.
How to apply for master’s level studies
Master’s level studies are provided by both universities and universities of applied sciences (UAS). You can apply for master’s level degree programmes provided in English in joint application and separate applications. Check how and when to apply in the programme descriptions.

Context : UNIVERSITIES
Finland has 13 universities and 22 universities of applied sciences (UAS).
English-taught degree programmes are offered on bachelor's, master's and doctoral levels.
Universities of applied sciences offer professionally oriented higher education on bachelor's and master's level, and have strong ties with working life and regional development.
Universities focus on scientific research and the education they provide is based on it. Universities offer bachelor's, master's and doctoral (PhD) level programme


Context:  Why Finland?
Study in the world's happiest country!

Finland is a member of the European Union and enjoys top rankings worldwide in competitiveness, quality of education, and sustainable development surveys. Finland is not only known for its spectacular nature and four distinct seasons, but is famous for its production and export of high technology. Finland is an excellent international study destination providing high-quality university studies, quality of life, equality, career opportunities, and a safe and stable environment.

Finland is a progressive welfare country providing an extensive network of well-functioning public services such as health, childcare, education and transport. There are currently approximately 20 000 international degree students in Finnish higher education studies representing a global community of future experts.

#1 Best Higher Education and Training System in the World
World Economic Forum 2015

#1 Happiest country in the world
World Happiness Report 2024

#1 Most peaceful and sustainable country in the world
The Fund for Peace, Fragile States Index 2018

#1 Finland has the world’s cleanest air
World Health Organization 2018

Finland - the land of thousands of lakes and magical northern light
5.5
million people
70 %
of land covered in forests
180 000
lakes and islands
4
distinct seasons
Indeed, Finland is still considered a niche study destination by many people. What's interesting is that not only my hometown friends, but also international students, are constantly curious about what brought each of us here. Sometimes even Finns would lean in and ask the same question. As we listen to different personal experiences, we often find remarkable similarities. Speaking for myself, I can summarize my reasons for studying in Finland as follows:

1.     THE HAPPIEST COUNTRY IN THE WORLD
The reputation of Finland as the happiest country in the world (having been ranked top for 6 consecutive years) was the first thing I learned about Finland, and it is indeed the main reason for anyone curious about what this country is like. This curiosity led me here, and Finland certainly lived up to my expectations.

2.     INCREDIBLE NATURE
Starting with my own experience, the idea of coming to Finland emerged in early 2017 when I participated in a summer camp there. The summer camp offered sports programs like floor hockey, curling, and skating, along with relaxing saunas and outdoor barbecues in a charming summer cottage. As a nature lover, I was fascinated by the extensive forests and lakes in Finland, as well as the Finnish people's commitment to make these natural resources accessible to all. Since then, I have had a strong desire to pursue higher education opportunities in Finland, and I eventually found my way to Aalto.

Context: FINNISH EDUCATION
The Finnish concept of education is a topic that is close to my heart. When I first experienced Finnish education, I was impressed by the level of freedom and trust given to students. During a hiking trip in Kuusamo, as part of a summer camp, we were entrusted with expensive professional cameras so that we could practice photography with high-quality equipment. This level of trust was something I had never experienced in my previous education. Later on, I discovered that this trust is deeply ingrained in the Finnish education system. The foundation of education is built on the belief that students have the ability to manage and organize their studies and personal development. Students are treated as equals to their teachers to a large extent. By having the right motivation and a self-driven approach to learning, anyone can make the most out of the abundant resources provided by the Finnish education system.

GREAT STUDENT BENEFITS & AFFORDABLE WAY OF LIFE
One of the most important factors to consider when deciding to study is the cost. Although non-EU students may have to pay tuition fees, there are scholarships available that can cover part or even the entire tuition fee. As a student living in Finland, you are also entitled to various benefits such as affordable accommodation, discounted public transportation, healthcare, meals, and cultural events. Taking all of these factors into consideration, studying in Finland is a more cost-effective option compared to other popular study destinations.

LOW HIERARCHY, SAFE AND TRUSTING SOCIETY
Living and studying in Finland can be incredibly relaxing and enjoyable. The society is relatively safe and equal, with trust being deeply ingrained in Finnish culture. It feels wonderful to be a part of this culture and to extend trust to others.
